                  KIIT
It was established in 1992 as an Industrial Training Institute with only twelve students and two faculty. This institution was the brainchild of Achyuta Samanta, C R Mishra, P K Mishra who had envisioned a profound center of learning in India and so pursued to lay the foundation of KIIT. In 1997, the School of Technology and the School of Computer Application was established. In 2004 it was conferred the status of deemed university and renamed KIIT University.

The KIIT School of Biotechnology, School of Rural Management, School of Medicine and KIIT Law School were started in 2007. In 2009, five new schools, School of Mass Communication, School of Fashion Technology, School of Film Studies, School of Tourism and Hospitality Management and School of Sculpture were established. However, later the School of Mass Communication and School of Film Studies were merged to form School of Film and Media Studies, while School of Sculpture was renamed as School of Fine Arts and the School of Tourism and Hospitality Management was discontinued. Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences and Kalinga Institute of Dental Sciences came under the ambit of KIIT in August 2009. 

In 2013, three new schools were established  — School of Architecture, School of Leadership and School of Sports. In 2015, 3 more schools were added - School of Public Health, School of Chemical Technology and School of Yoga and Spiritualism. In 2017, the institute was renamed back Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology, following a request from all institutes deemed to be universities not to use university in their title. In 2019, KIIT was recognised as an Institute of Eminence by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD).

The KIIT School of Biotechnology, School of Rural Management, School of Medicine and KIIT Law School were started in 2007. In 2009, five new schools, School of Mass Communication, School of Fashion Technology, School of Film Studies, School of Tourism and Hospitality Management and School of Sculpture were established. However, later the School of Mass Communication and School of Film Studies were merged to form School of Film and Media Studies, while School of Sculpture was renamed as School of Fine Arts and the School of Tourism and Hospitality Management was discontinued. Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences and Kalinga Institute of Dental Sciences came under the ambit of KIIT in August 2009. In 2013, three new schools were established  — School of Architecture, School of Leadership and School of Sports. In 2015, 3 more schools were added - School of Public Health, School of Chemical Technology and School of Yoga and Spiritualism. this is a sample and this will continu8e thill this get erased. hey you baby baby kal ki sochenge kal ko , hey you babieh jee lene de iss pal ko.It was established in 1992 as an Industrial Training Institute with only twelve students and two faculty. This institution was the brainchild of Achyuta Samanta, C R Mishra, P K Mishra who had envisioned a profound center of learning in India and so pursued to lay the foundation of KIIT.this is a sample and this will continu8e thill this get erased. hey you baby baby kal ki sochenge kal ko , hey you babieh jee lene de iss pal ko. In 2013, three new schools were established  — School of Architecture, School of Leadership and School of Sports. In 2015, 3 more schools were added - School of Public Health, School of Chemical Technology and School of Yoga and Spiritualism.